I was excited to see an opening for a software development engineer, and I hope to be contacted for an interview. I would like to itern at Aerojet Rocketdyne because I am interested in a career in aerospace engineering, and I would enjoy applying the programming and mathematical modeling skills that I have learned at Cornell to improve the efficiency of aerospace products.

I am currently a mathematics and physics major at Cornell University, concentrating in computer science and applied math. At Cornell, I have taken a variety of classes, including a robotics class with Prof. Ross A. Knepper. This class focused on a programming robotic manipulator, a Baxter built by Rethink Robotics. I worked on a team of three students to develop a pick-and-place manipulation system, a system which drew on a whiteboard with a marker, and a system which played "soccer" by blocking and shooting a ping pong ball with a simple gripper. From working on this team, I learned how to take a significant problem and break it down into smaller parts, and then collaborate with team members on completing these smaller parts  and making sure that they work together in concert. I wrote the control and error-handling logic of the pick-and-place system,  the error-correction, path-planning and kinematics for the whiteboard drawer, and the blocking and kalman filtering code for the soccer playing robot. On all of these robotic systems, I implemented systems to determine how to best achieve a desired joint velocity by controlling the velocities of individual joints. Since the joints had an extra degree of freedom, I used linear algebra and numerical integration to alter arm movements to ensure that the end-effector was kept in the most maneuverable region of the configuration space. These systems were distributed, concurrent systems which ran in several distinct processes and communicated via service calls and message passing, using the Robot Operating System (ROS). Our final project was one of the best-performing in the class, and I am now working in a research course with Prof. Knepper to create mobile robot manipulators. In implementing robotic manipulators, I have gained  experience implementing and debugging software which powers a physical system which I hope to apply as an intern at Aerojet Rocketdyne. 

I've been interested in spaceflight since the landing of Mars Pathfinder. I became interested in model rockets, and especially with scale models of real rockets. Later, I worked on my high school's FIRST robotics team, serving as the chief of mechanical design for three years. When I first attended Cornell, I was fascinated physics and mathematical modeling classes. I also became interested in commercial spaceflight: I've been following SpaceX and Blue Origin's  recent attempts at building reusable rockets, as well as SpaceX and Orbital ATK/ULA missions to the ISS. After SpaceX's recent propulsive landing, I made a mathematical model to plan propulsive landings, as well as a mathematical model which uses optimal control theory to plan an ascent  trajectory which maximizes the energy delivery of a launch vehicle with a fixed burn time and thrust. This system made use of ideas from the calculus of  variations, specifically hamiltonian dynamics and constrained maximization using costates. It was also necessary to solve a system of three nonlinear equations to solve the boundary-value problem of achieving a certain speed at a desired altitude. I hope to be able to work on programming and mathematical modeling at Aerojet Rocketdyne, so that I can work on interesting problems which will enhance our spaceflight capabilities and hopefully open up a new frontier for commerce and habitation.

I can offer experienced numerical programming skills in the Python, Matlab, Julia, and Octave Environments, as well as proficiency with programming in C++. I am currently taking a course on computational physics using C++, from which I will learn a variety of  numerical techniques, as well as object-oriented features to enable easy code reuse. I am proficient at mechanical design using Autodesk  Inventor. I used it to design my high school's FIRST Robotics  Competition robot for the three years I was the lead designer.  I have served as a software development intern at Lockheed Martin, where I wrote DevOps code to automatically provi

I am confident that I can offer problem-solving skills as a software development intern. Feel free to contact me at (240)-515-5838, or email me at cps232@cornell.edu. I look forward to learning more about engineering at Aerojet Rocketdyne.

Sincerely,
Christopher Silvia
