The TREND REU expereience will help me further my
	career and academic interests by providing me with 
	problems and solutions.

I will obtain experience finding problems to solve.

The submarine project interests me the most, because I have
	enjoyed working with continuous optimization problems	
	before in my class, mathematical modeling.
I have solved them with the help of the calculus of variations.

===

Prof. Paley's research will further my academic interests because I am interested
	in learning about control and sampling theory.
When I was implementing a robotic soccer playing program for a computer science
	class at cornell, my favorite part of the project was developing a kalman
	filter to estimate the position and velocity of a soccer ball, 
	based on only position observations.
I learned the importance of quantifying uncertainty: 
	the soccer ball would often bounce in ways that were difficult to predict, and 
	would often disappear from view altogether when the other team posessed it.
Initially, the kalman filter had difficulty dealing with either situation.
Instead of making a more complicated model of the ball's physics, or interaction
	with the opponent, I instead decided to increase the uncertainty in the ball's
	position whenever it was near the walls, or obscured from view.
I was then able to use an extremely simple linear motion model for the ball and
	achieve very good results.
I would have loved to further refine my filter, but unfortuneately the semester
	ended.
Working in Professor Paley's lab will give me oppertunities to investigate two
	things which interest me greatly: attempting to quanitfy uncertainty,
	and attempting to make plans based on quantified uncertainty.

Working in Prof. Paley's lab will give me experience working on projects which are
	immediately applicable to the real world.
This will be challenging and rewarding: challenging, because real-world problems
	have many complicating factors which will arise during work,
	and rewarding because it will be easy to see the impact of the lab's progress
	in improving ocean measurement.

